Task executor preference (#2187)
apple/swift-evolution: proposals/NNNN-task-executor-preference.md

  // executes on 'preferredExecutor'
  await tryMe() // tryMe body would execute on 'preferredExecutor'
}

 await tryMe() // tryMe body would execute on 'default global concurrent executor'
```

### The `TaskExecutor` protocol

In order to fulfil the requirement that we'd like default actors to run on a task executor, if it was set, we need to introduce a new kind of executor.

This stems from the fact that `SerialExecutor` and how a default actor effectively acts as an executor "for itself" function in Swift.
A default actor (so an actor which does not use a custom executor), has a "default" executor that is created by the Swift runtime and uses the actor is the executor's identity.
This means that the runtime executor tracking necessarily needs to track that some code is executing on a specific serial executor in order for things like `assumeIsolated` or the built-in runtime thread-safety checks can utilize them.

The new protocol mirrors `Executor` and `SerialExecutor` in API, however it provides different semantics, and is tracked using a different mechanism at runtime -- by obtaining it from a task's executor preference record.

The `TaskExecutor` is defined as:

```swift

> public protocol TaskExecutor: Executor {

Reviewer: I think we should provide some docs here on what is allowed. A `TaskExecutor` is allowed to be a pool of threads or a single thread. Both of them are fine and we should call it out on the docs.

```swift
actor RunsAnywhere { // a "default" actor == without an executor requirement
  func hello() {
    return "Hello"
  }
}
```

Such actor has no requirement as to where it wants to execute. This means that if we were to call the `hello()` isolated 
actor method from a task that has defined an executor preference -- the hello() method would still execute on a thread owned by that executor (!),
however isolation is still guaranteed by the actor's semantics:

```swift
let anywhere = RunsAnywhere()
Task { await anywhere.hello() } // runs on "default executor", using a thread from the global pool

Task(on: myExecutor) { await anywhere.hello() } // runs on preferred executor, using a thread owned by that executor
```

Methods which assert isolation, such as `Actor/assumeIsolated` and similar still function as expected.

The task executor can be seen as a "source of threads" for the execution, while the actor's serial executor is used to ensure the serial and isolated execution of the code.

## Execution semantics discussion

### Not a Golden Hammer

As with many new capabilities in libraries and languages, one may be tempted to use task executors to solve various problems.

> We advice to take care when doing so with task executors, because while they do minimize the "hopping off" from executors and the associated context switching,

Reviewer 2: Typo: "We _advise_ to..."

Reviewer 3: Better:  "We advise care ..."

Author: Done, thanks

           |                                      yes               no
           |                                       |                |
           |                                       v                v
           |                  +=======================+    /* task executor preference? */
           |                  | on specified executor |        |                   |
           |                  +=======================+       yes                  no
           |                                                   |                   |
           |                                                   |                   v
           |                                                   |    +==========================+
           |                                                   |    | default (actor) executor |
           |                                                   v    +==========================+
           v                                   +==============================+
/* task executor preference? */ ---- yes ----> | on Task's preferred executor |
           |                                   +==============================+

>           yes

Reviewer 4: I'm pretty sure you want to use `no` in this case:
```suggestion
           no
```

Author: nice catch, thanks

           |
           v
  +===============================+
  | on global concurrent executor |
  +===============================+
```

> In other words, this proposal introduces the ability to control code may execute from a Task, and not just by using a custom actor executor.

Author: ```suggestion
In other words, this proposal introduces the ability to control where a task is executed, by directly configuring it, and not just by using a custom actor executor.
```

  executor.assertIsolated()
  return 42
} 
```

or, for a specific scope using the `withTaskExecutor` method:

```swift
await withTaskExecutor(executor) { 
  // if not already running on specified 'executor'
  // the withTaskExecutor would hop to it, and run this closure on it.

  // task groups
  await withDiscardingTaskGroup { group in 
    group.addTask {
      // starts and runs on the 'executor'
      await nonisolatedAsyncFunc()
    }
  }
  
  // async let 
  async let number = nonisolatedAsyncFunc() // starts and runs on 'executor'
  await number
}
```

Notably, the task executor preference is in effect for the entire structured task hierarchy while running in a task or scope where a task executor preference is set. For example, the following snippet illustrates child tasks created inside of a `withTaskExecutor`.

If a task with such executor preference encounters code which is `isolated` to some specific actor, it would adhere to that requirement and hop to it as expected:

```swift
let capy: Capybara = Capybara()
actor Capybara { func eat() {} } 

Task(on: executor) {
  // starts on 'executor', however...

>   try await capy.eat() // still executes actor isolated code on the actor's executor, as expected

Author: It's all on the "task executor" default actor executor is not used to "execute"/"enqueue" the work, but only for identity of the actor when this happens.

>   try await capy.eat() // still executes actor isolated code on the actor's executor, as expected

Author: This is all trying to make the "don't context switch" case the primary use case and driving force of the design

```swift
await withTaskExecutor(someExecutor) { 
 // guaranteed to be executing on someExecutor
}
```

Once set, the effect of an executor preference is such that a nonisolated func instead of immediately hopping to the global pool, it may hop to the preferred executor, e.g.:

```swift
nonisolated func tryMe() async { 
 // ...
}

let preferredExecutor: SomeConcreteExecutor = ...
Task(on: preferredExecutor) { 
  preferredExecutor.assertIsolated()
  await tryMe() // tryMe body would execute on 'preferredExecutor'
}

 await tryMe() // tryMe body would execute on 'default global concurrent executor'
```

### Task executor preference inheritance in Structured Concurrency

Task executor preference is inherited by child tasks and actors which do not declare an explicit executor (so-called "default actors"), and is *not* inherited by un-structured tasks. 

Specifically:

* **Do** inherit task executor preference
    * TaskGroup’s `addTask()`, unless overridden with explicit parameter
    * `async let`

>     * methods on actors which which do not declare an explicit `unownedExecutor` requirement

Reviewer: This reads as if methods can declare an `unownedExecutor` requirement. Can we change the wording a bit.

* **Do not** inherit task executor preference
    * Unstructured tasks: `Task {}` and `Task.detached {}`

>     * methods on actors which **do** declare an explicit `unownedExecutor` (including e.g. the `MainActor`)

Reviewer: Same here

Since `async let` are the simplest form of structured concurrency, they dot not offer much in the way of customization.

An async currently always executes on the global concurrent executor, and with the inclusion of this proposal, it does take into account task executor preference. In other words, if an executor preference is set, it will be used by async let to enqueue its underlying task:

```swift
func test(_ someExecutor: any Executor) -> Int {
  someExecutor.assertIsolated()
  return 42
}

await withTaskExecutor(someExecutor) { 
  async let value = test(someExecutor) // executes on 'someExecutor'
  // ... 
  await value
}
```

### Task executor preference and TaskGroups

A `TaskGroup` and its various friends (`ThrowingTaskGroup`, `DiscardingTaskGroup`, ...) are the most powerful, but also most explicit and verbose API for structured concurrency. A group allows creating multiple child tasks using the `addTask` method, and always awaits all child tasks to complete before returning.

This proposal adds overloads to the `addTask` method, which changes the executor the child tasks will be enqueued on:

```swift
extension (Discarding)(Throwing)TaskGroup { 
  mutating func addTask(

>     on executor:  (any Executor)?,  // 'nil' means the global pool

Reviewer: Just so I get it right. We introduce the new `withExecutor` method and all existing code that is called in such a scope would automatically inherit. Now developers might go around and check if there is code that should not inherit and then add `on: nil`, right?

Could we instead spell it `on: .global`? I think the `nil` is a bit confusing

Author: We can discuss that in evolution yeah

    priority:  TaskPriority? = nil,

>   operation:  @Sendable @escaping () async (throws) -> Void

Reviewer: NIT: formatting is off here

  )
  
  mutating func addTask<TargetActor>(

>  on actor: TargetActor,

Reviewer: NIT: formatting is off here

      12 
    }
    group.addTask(on: differentExecutor) {
      differentExecutor.assertIsolated()
      42 
    }
    group.addTask(on: nil) { 
      // guaranteed to run on the default global concurrent executor;
      // this is equivalent to the only behavior a group exhibits today.
      84
    } 
    return await group.next()!
  }
```

This gives developers explicit control over where a task group child task shall be executed. Notably, this gives callers of libraries more control over where work should be performed. Do note that code executing on an actor will always hop to that actor; and task executor preference has no impact on code which *requires* to be running in some specific isolation.

If a library really wants to ensure that hops to the global concurrent executor *are* made by e.g. such task group, they should use `group.addTask(on: nil)` to override the inherited task executor preference.

### Task executor preference and Unstructured Tasks

We propose adding new APIs and necessary runtime changes to allow a Task to be enqueued directly on a specific `Executor`, by using a new `Task(on:)` initializer:

```swift
extension Task where Failure == Never {

>   @discardableResult

Reviewer: We have to see how we fold this in with the typed throws proposal since we are dropping a few inits and the `@discarableResult` there.

Author: Yeah I'm not including any of those changes but yes they will have to mesh together

  ) where TargetActor: Actor
}
```

The same kind of APIs are offered for creating structured tasks using TaskGroups:

```swift
extension (Discarding)(Throwing)TaskGroup { 
  func addTask<TargetActor: Actor>(
    on: TargetActor, 
    operation: (isolated TargetActor) async (throws) -> Success)
}
```

#### Task executor preference and default actor isolated methods

It is also worth explaining the interaction with actors which do not declare any executor requirement, like most actors.
Such actors are referred to as "default actors" and are the default way of how actors are declared:

```swift
actor RunsAnywhere { // a "default" actor == without an executor requirement
  func hello() {
    return "Hello"
  }
}
```

Such actor has no requirement as to where it wants to execute. This means that if we were to call the `hello()` isolated 
actor method from a task that has defined an executor preference -- the hello() method would still execute on a thread owned by that executor (!),
however isolation is still guaranteed by the actor's semantics:

```swift
let anywhere = RunsAnywhere()
Task { await anywhere.hello() } // runs on "default executor", using a thread from the global pool

> Task(on: myExecutor) { await anywhere.hello() } // runs on preferred executor, using a thread owned by that executor

Reviewer 5: I’m not sure if I understand correctly, but doesn’t this part indicate isolated actor method jobs for an actor instance can be enqueued into multiple executors (default actor queue and preferred executor’s queue)? Doesn't it lead concurrent execution on an actor instance?

Author: In this version of the proposal the preferred executor takes precedence; We're not "running on" the actor's executor; though we'd have to use it for runtime assume-isolated checking.

Reviewer 5: Ah, that makes sense 👍

# Task Executor Preference

* Proposal: SE-NNNN
* Author: [Konrad 'ktoso' Malawski](https://github.com/ktoso), [John McCall](https://github.com/rjmccall), [Franz Busch](https://github.com/FranzBusch)
* Review Manager: TBD
* Status: Partially implemented [PR #68793](https://github.com/apple/swift/pull/68793)
* Implementation: TBD
* Review: TBD

> 

Reviewer 6: Please add a link to the pitch thread, https://forums.swift.org/t/pitch-task-executor-preference/68191

Author: ```suggestion
* Discussion threads:
    * Pitch: https://forums.swift.org/t/pitch-task-executor-preference/68191
```

## Introduction

Swift Concurrency uses tasks and actors to model concurrency and primarily relies on actor isolation to determine where a specific piece of code shall execute.

The recent introduction of custom actor executors in [SE-0392](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0392-custom-actor-executors.md) allows customizing on what specific `SerialExecutor` implementation code should be running on while isolated to a specific actor. This allows developers to gain some control over exact threading semantics of actors, by e.g. making sure all work made by a specific actor is made on a dedicated queue or thread.

> Today, the same flexibility is not available to tasks in general, and nonisolated asynchronous functions are always forced to execute on the default global concurrent thread pool managed by Swift concurrency.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Today, the same flexibility is not available to tasks in general, and nonisolated asynchronous functions are always executed on the default global concurrent thread pool managed by Swift concurrency.
```

## Motivation

Custom actor executors allow developers to customize where execution of a task “on” an actor must happen (e.g. on a specific queue or thread, represented by a `SerialExecutor`), the same capability is currently missing for code that is not isolated to an actor.

> Notably, since Swift 5.7’s [SE-0338: Clarify the Execution of Non-Actor-Isolated Async Functions](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0338-clarify-execution-non-actor-async.md), functions which are not isolated to an actor will always hop to the default global concurrent executor, which is great for correctness and understanding the code and avoids “hanging onto” actors  longer than necessary. This is also a desirable semantic for code running on the `MainActor` calling into `nonisolated` functions, since it allows the main actor to be quickly freed up to proceed with other work, however it has a decremental effect on applications which want to *avoid* hops in order to maximize request processing throughput. This is especially common with event-loop based systems, such as network servers or other kinds of tight request handling loops.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Notably, since Swift 5.7’s [SE-0338: Clarify the Execution of Non-Actor-Isolated Async Functions](https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/blob/main/proposals/0338-clarify-execution-non-actor-async.md), functions which are not isolated to an actor will always hop to the default global concurrent executor, which is great for correctness and understanding the code and avoids “hanging onto” actors  longer than necessary. This is also a desirable semantic for code running on the `MainActor` calling into `nonisolated` functions, since it allows the main actor to be quickly freed up to proceed with other work, however it has a detrimental effect on applications which want to *avoid* hops in order to maximize request processing throughput. This is especially common with event-loop based systems, such as network servers or other kinds of tight request handling loops.
```

           |                                       v                v
           |                  +=======================+    /* task executor preference? */
           |                  | on specified executor |        |                   |
           |                  +=======================+       yes                  no
           |                                                   |                   |
           |                                                   |                   v
           |                                                   |    +==========================+
           |                                                   |    | default (actor) executor |
           |                                                   v    +==========================+
           v                                   +==============================+
/* task executor preference? */ ---- yes ----> | on Task's preferred executor |
           |                                   +==============================+
           no
           |
           v
  +===============================+
  | on global concurrent executor |
  +===============================+
```

> In other words, this proposal introduces the ability to where code may execute from a Task, and not just by using a custom actor executor,

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In other words, this proposal introduces the ability to specify where code may execute from a Task, and not just by using a custom actor executor,
```

and even influence the thread use of default actors.

With this proposal a **`nonisolated` function** will execute, as follows:

* if task preference **is not** set:
  * it is equivalent to current semantics, and will execute on the global concurrent executor,

* if a task preference **is** set,
  * **(new)** nonisolated functions will execute on the selected executor.

The preferred executor also may influence where **actor-isolated code** may execute, specifically:

- if task preference **is** set:
  - **(new)** default actors will use the task's preferred executor
  - actors with a custom executor execute on that specified executor (i.e. "preference" has no effect), and are not influenced by the task's preference

> The task executor preference can be specified either, at task creation time:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The task executor preference can be specified either at task creation time:
```

    group.addTask {
      // starts and runs on the 'executor'
      await nonisolatedAsyncFunc()
    }
  }
  
  // async let 
  async let number = nonisolatedAsyncFunc() // starts and runs on 'executor'
  await number
}
```

Notably, the task executor preference is in effect for the entire structured task hierarchy while running in a task or scope where a task executor preference is set. For example, the following snippet illustrates child tasks created inside of a `withTaskExecutor`.

If a task with such executor preference encounters code which is `isolated` to some specific actor, it would adhere to that requirement and hop to it as expected:

```swift
let capy: Capybara = Capybara()
actor Capybara { func eat() {} } 

Task(on: executor) {
  // starts on 'executor', however...
  try await capy.eat() // still executes actor isolated code on the actor's executor, as expected
}
```

## Detailed design

### Setting task executor preference

A new concept of task executor preference is added to Swift Concurrency tasks. This preference is stored in a task and propagated throughout child tasks (such as ones created by TaskGroups and async let).

> The preference can be set using various APIs that will be discussed in detail in their respective sections. The first of those APIs is `withTaskExecutor` which is can be called inside an asynchronous context to both ensure we’re executing on the expected executor, as well as set the task executor preference for the duration of the operation closure:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
The preference can be set using various APIs that will be discussed in detail in their respective sections. The first of those APIs is `withTaskExecutor` which can be called inside an asynchronous context to both ensure we’re executing on the expected executor, as well as set the task executor preference for the duration of the operation closure:
```

and the latter being something that "provides serial isolation" and is a crucial part of Swift actors. The two share similarities, however the task executor has a more varied application space.

### Task executor preference inheritance in Structured Concurrency

Task executor preference is inherited by child tasks and actors which do not declare an explicit executor (so-called "default actors"), and is *not* inherited by un-structured tasks. 

Specifically:

* **Do** inherit task executor preference
    * TaskGroup’s `addTask()`, unless overridden with explicit parameter
    * `async let`
    * methods on default actors (actors which do not use a custom executor)
* **Do not** inherit task executor preference
    * Unstructured tasks: `Task {}` and `Task.detached {}`
    * methods on actors which **do** use a custom executor (including e.g. the `MainActor`)

This also means that an entire tree can be made to execute their nonisolated work on a specific executor, just by means of setting the preference on the top-level task.

### Task executor preference and async let

> Since `async let` are the simplest form of structured concurrency, they dot not offer much in the way of customization.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Since `async let` are the simplest form of structured concurrency, they do not offer much in the way of customization.
```

> An async currently always executes on the global concurrent executor, and with the inclusion of this proposal, it does take into account task executor preference. In other words, if an executor preference is set, it will be used by async let to enqueue its underlying task:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
An async let currently always executes on the global concurrent executor, and with the inclusion of this proposal, it does take into account task executor preference. In other words, if an executor preference is set, it will be used by async let to enqueue its underlying task:
```

```swift
func test() async -> Int {
  return 42
}

await withTaskExecutor(someExecutor) { 
  async let value = test() // async let's "body" and target function execute on 'someExecutor'
  // ... 
  await value
}
```

### Task executor preference and TaskGroups

A `TaskGroup` and its various friends (`ThrowingTaskGroup`, `DiscardingTaskGroup`, ...) are the most powerful, but also most explicit and verbose API for structured concurrency. A group allows creating multiple child tasks using the `addTask` method, and always awaits all child tasks to complete before returning.

This proposal adds overloads to the `addTask` method, which changes the executor the child tasks will be enqueued on:

```swift
extension (Discarding)(Throwing)TaskGroup { 
  mutating func addTask(

>     on executor:  (any TaskExecutor)?,  // 'nil' means the global pool

Reviewer 6: Okay, this is non-editorial, but I'd rather we avoid existentials in the interface if we can. 
```suggestion
    on executor:  (some TaskExecutor)?,  // 'nil' means the global pool
```

Author: This is subtle, here's the difference:

```
addTask() { ... } // no preference
addTask(on: nil) { ... } // global pool
addTask(on: something) { ... } // specific pool
```

Alternatively we could introduce a three-value enum:

```
on: .taskExecutor(...)
on: .noPreference
on: .defaultGlobalExecutor
```

?

Author: These are `any` on purpose but I could revisit this -- I think this is just because I struggled with implementation to get the existential that we need to store hmmm... 

We're not allowing getting the current executor which would have been `any TaskExecutor` so that necessity to make this any as well is gone...

Think we should try to make these `some`?

Reviewer 6: I'd like to revisit this, but it can be part of a review

Author: Yup, happy to do so!

Reviewer: Personally, I still thing using `nil` for global pool is wrong and an explicit enums makes more sense.

Author: Sure, happy to do very explicit enums -- I quite like them but no APIs in Swift really do it so far, we can though 👍

    priority:  TaskPriority? = nil,
    operation:  @Sendable @escaping () async (throws) -> Void
  )
}
```

Which allows users to require child tasks be enqueued and run on specific executors:

```swift
Task(on: specialExecutor) {
  _ = await withTaskGroup(of: Int.self) { group in 
    group.addTask() {
      specialExecutor.assertIsolated()

>       12 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      return 12 
```

    }
    group.addTask(on: differentExecutor) {
      differentExecutor.assertIsolated()

>       42 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
      return 42 
```

## Inspecting task executor preference

It is possible to inspect the current preferred task executor of a task, however because doing so is inherently unsafe -- due to lack of guarantees surrounding the lifetime of an executor referred to using an `UnownedTaskExecutor`,
this operation is only exposed on the `UnsafeCurrentTask`. 

Furthermore, the API purposefully does not expose an `any TaskExecutor` because this would risk incurring atomic ref-counting on an executor object that may have been already deallocated.

This API is intended only for fine-tuning and checking if we are executing on the "expected" task executor, and therefore the `UnownedTaskExecutor` also implements the `Equabable` protocol,
and implements it using pointer equality. This comparison is not strictly safe, in case if an executor was deallocated, and a new executor was allocated in the same memory location,
however for purposes of executors -- especially long-lived ones, we believe this is not going to prove to be a problem in practical uses of task executors.

An example use of this API might be something like this:

```
struct MyEventLoopTaskExecutor: TaskExecutor {}

> func test(expected eventLoop: MyEventLoopTaskExecutor) { // synchronous function that  to require 

Author: thanks this was done here: https://github.com/apple/swift-evolution/pull/2187/commits/51439d5327093e89ceeb5b21b8ba96471040d6f5

    let eventLoop: MyCoolEventLoop? = EventLoops.find(unownedExecutor)
    
    // Dangerous because there is no structured guarantee that eventLoop will be kept alive
    // long for as long as there is  any of its child tasks and functions running on it
    Task(on: eventLoop) { ... }
  }
}
```

## Combining `SerialExecutor` and `TaskExecutor`

It is possible to declare a single executor type and have it conform to *both* the `SerialExecutor` (introduced in the custom actor executors proposal),
as well as the `TaskExecutor` (introduce in this proposal).

If declaring an executor that adheres to both protocols like that, it truly **must** adhere to the `SerialExecutor` 
semantics of not running work concurrently, as it may be used as an *isolation context* by an actor. 

```swift
// naive executor for illustration purposes; we'll assert on the dispatch queue and isolation.
final class NaiveQueueExecutor: TaskExecutor, SerialExecutor {
  let queue: DispatchQueue

  init(_ queue: DispatchQueue) {
    self.queue = queue
  }

  public func enqueue(_ _job: consuming ExecutorJob) {
  let job = UnownedJob(_job)
  queue.async {

>         isolatedOn: self.asUnownedSerialExecutor(),

Author: Whoops thank you

>         isolatedOn: self.asUnownedSerialExecutor(),

Author: ```suggestion
    job.runSynchronously(
        isolatedOn: self.asUnownedSerialExecutor(),
```

### Setting task executor preference

A new concept of task executor preference is added to Swift Concurrency tasks. This preference is stored in a task and propagated throughout child tasks (such as ones created by TaskGroups and async let).

The preference can be set using various APIs that will be discussed in detail in their respective sections. The first of those APIs is `withTaskExecutor` which can be called inside an asynchronous context to both ensure we’re executing on the expected executor, as well as set the task executor preference for the duration of the operation closure:

```swift
await withTaskExecutor(someExecutor) { 
 // guaranteed to be executing on someExecutor
}
```

Once set, the effect of an executor preference is such that a nonisolated func instead of immediately hopping to the global pool, it may hop to the preferred executor, e.g.:

```swift
nonisolated func tryMe() async { 
 // ...
}

let preferredExecutor: SomeConcreteTaskExecutor = ...
Task(on: preferredExecutor) {
  // executes on 'preferredExecutor'
  await tryMe() // tryMe body would execute on 'preferredExecutor'
}

 await tryMe() // tryMe body would execute on 'default global concurrent executor'

> ```

Reviewer 7: `await try` seems to get mis-highlighted by GitHub.  It's silly that you have to do this, but could you just rename this function to something that doesn't start with `try`?

Reviewer 6: I'll clean this up post-merge

If a library really wants to ensure that hops to the global concurrent executor *are* made by e.g. such task group, they should use `group.addTask(on: nil)` to override the inherited task executor preference.

### Task executor preference and Unstructured Tasks

We propose adding new APIs and necessary runtime changes to allow a Task to be enqueued directly on a specific `Executor`, by using a new `Task(on:)` initializer:

```swift
extension Task where Failure == Never {
  @discardableResult
  public init(
    on executor:  (any TaskExecutor)?,
    priority: TaskPriority? = nil,
    operation: @Sendable @escaping () async -> Success
  )
  
  @discardableResult
  static func detached(
    on executor:  (any TaskExecutor)?,
    priority: TaskPriority? = nil,
    operation: @Sendable @escaping () async -> Success
  )
}

extension Task where Failure == Error { 
  @discardableResult
  public init(

>     on executor: any TaskExecutor,

Reviewer 7: I assume this should be optional?
```suggestion
    on executor: (any TaskExecutor)?,
```

           |                                       v                v
           |                  +=======================+    /* task executor preference? */
           |                  | on specified executor |        |                   |
           |                  +=======================+       yes                  no
           |                                                   |                   |
           |                                                   |                   v
           |                                                   |    +==========================+
           |                                                   |    | default (actor) executor |
           |                                                   v    +==========================+
           v                                   +==============================+
/* task executor preference? */ ---- yes ----> | on Task's preferred executor |
           |                                   +==============================+
          yes
           |
           v
  +===============================+
  | on global concurrent executor |
  +===============================+
```

> In other words, this proposal introduces the ability to control code may execute from a Task, and not just by using a custom actor executor.

Reviewer 8: ... control *where* executes from a Task ...
